web/syllabus.md, before:

---
title:      Syllabus
layout:     main
---

### Lecture and section information

CS 6210, Fall 2019  
Lecture time: MWF 11:15-12:05  
Lecture location: Hollister 306

### Staff and office hours

Prof: [David Bindel](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~bindel)  
425 Gates Hall  
Phone: 607-255-5395  
E-mail: <bindel@cs.cornell.edu>  
OH: TBD

TA: [John Ryan](https://www.johnpaulryan.com/)  
E-mail: <jpr269@cornell.edu>  
OH: Tues 1-2, Weds 4-5 in Rhodes 584

### Catalog description

4 credits.  Stable and efficient algorithms for linear equations, least
squares, and eigenvalue problems. Direct and iterative methods are
considered. Julia and/or MATLAB are used extensively.

### Prerequisites

A theoretical linear algebra course (Math 4310) or permission
of the instructor.

### Texts

#### Recommended

- Demmel, [_Applied Numerical Linear Algebra_][demmel]
- Golub and Van Loan, [_Matrix Computations_][gvl]

#### References

Some linear algebra references:

- Meyer, [_Matrix Analysis and Applied Linear Algebra_][meyer]
- Lay, [_Linear Algebra and its Applications_][lay]
- Strang, [_Linear Algebra and its Applications_][strang]
- Strang's excellent online course is [here][strangocw]

Some MATLAB references:

- Moler, [_Numerical Computing with MATLAB_][ncm]
- Van Loan and Fan,
  [_Insight Through Computing: A Matlab Introduction to Computational Science and Engineering_][itc]
- Pratap, [_Getting Started with MATLAB 7_][pratap]
- Gilat, [_MATLAB: An Introduction with Applications_][gilat]
- Hanselman and Littlefield, [_Mastering MATLAB7_][hanselman]
- Or pick a favorite from the [many available][mathworks-books]

The [Julia language web site](https://julialang.org/) has good references 
for the Julia language.

[demmel]: https://www.amazon.com/Applied-Numerical-Linear-Algebra-Demmel/dp/0898713897/
[gvl]: https://www.amazon.com/Computations-Hopkins-Studies-Mathematical-Sciences/dp/B00BD2DVIC/
[meyer]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0898714540/qid=1137779618/sr=2-1/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_1/002-5247186-8320001
[lay]: http://www.amazon.com/Linear-Algebra-Its-Applications-Edition/dp/0321385179
[strang]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0155510053/qid=1137779745/sr=2-1/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_1/002-5247186-8320001
[strangocw]: http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-06sc-linear-algebra-fall-2011/

[ncm]: http://www.mathworks.com/moler/index_ncm.html
[itc]: http://www.ec-securehost.com/SIAM/OT117.html
[pratap]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0195179374/qid=1137779327/sr=8-1/ref=pd_bbs_1/002-5247186-8320001
[gilat]: http://www.amazon.com/MATLAB-Introduction-Applications-Amos-Gilat/dp/0470108770/
[hanselman]: http://www.amazon.com/Mastering-MATLAB-Duane-C-Hanselman/dp/0131430181/
[mathworks-books]: http://www.mathworks.com/support/books/index_by_categorytitle.html?category=17

## Course work

### Readings and the problem du jour

Readings from the course notes will be listed on the course
page before class.  *You are responsible for reading before lecture*.

For most lectures, there will be a "problem of the day" related to
the class material.  These problems are not graded, but you should
try them (and try to understand them) as a way to better learn the
material -- and as a way to study for the exams.

### Homework

There will be nine one-week homeworks, typically assigned Monday and due the
following Monday.  These problems will involve a mix of proofs and computations
done in Julia or MATLAB.  Homework should be typed and submitted as PDF files
on CMS.  After they are graded, homework scores will be posted to CMS.  Regrade
requests must be submitted within one week of receiving the graded homework.

In order to provide timely, high-quality feedback, we may *not* always
grade all problems in a homework or pieces to a project.  Instead, we
will focus our grading efforts on providing feedback on a few key
points.  We will provide written solutions so that you can evaluate
yourself for problems where we do not grade in detail.

### Exams

There will be take-home midterm and final exams.

## Grading

Your final grade in CS 6210 will be computed from grades on the
assignments and exams using the following weights:

 - Participation: 6%
 - Homework: 6% times 9 homeworks
 - Midterm: 20%
 - Final: 20%

## Course policies

### Late work policy

Unless otherwise stated, all work is due by 11:59 pm on the due date.
All homework and projects should be submitted via the course
management system (CMS); you are encouraged to submit early versions,
since resubmissions up to the deadline are counted without penalty.

### Collaboration

An assignment is an academic document, like a journal article.
When you turn it in, you are claiming everything in it is your
original work, *unless you cite a source for it*.

You are welcome to discuss homework and projects among yourselves in
general terms.  However, you should not look at code or writeups from
other students, or allow other students to see your code or writeup,
even if the general solution was worked out together.  Unless we
explicitly allow it on an assignment, we will not credit code or
writeups that are shared between students (or teams, in the case of
projects).

If you get an idea from a classmate, a book or other published
source, or elsewhere, please provide an appropriate citation.  This is
not only critical to maintaining academic integrity, but it is also an
important way for you to give credit to those who have helped you out.
When in doubt, cite!  Code or writeups with appropriate citations will
never be considered a violation of academic integrity in this class
(though you will not receive credit for code or writeups that were
shared when you should have done them yourself).

### Academic Integrity

We expect academic integrity from everyone.  School is stressful,
and you may feel pressure from your coursework or other factors,
but that is no reason for dishonesty!  If you feel you can't complete
the work on the own, come talk to the professor, the TA, or your advisor,
and we can help you figure out what to do.

For more information, see Cornell's
[Code of Academic Integrity](http://cuinfo.cornell.edu/Academic/AIC.html).

### Emergency procedures

In the event of a major campus emergency, course requirements, deadlines, and
grading percentages are subject to changes that may be necessitated by a
revised semester calendar or other circumstances.  Any such announcements will
be posted to [the course home page](index.html).

Commit message:

Added links for info systems in syllabus.

web/syllabus.md, after:

---
title:      Syllabus
layout:     main
---

### Lecture and section information

CS 6210, Fall 2019  
Lecture time: MWF 11:15-12:05  
Lecture location: Hollister 306

### Staff and office hours

Prof: [David Bindel](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~bindel)  
425 Gates Hall  
Phone: 607-255-5395  
E-mail: <bindel@cs.cornell.edu>  
OH: TBD

TA: [John Ryan](https://www.johnpaulryan.com/)  
E-mail: <jpr269@cornell.edu>  
OH: Tues 1-2, Weds 4-5 in Rhodes 584

### Catalog description

4 credits.  Stable and efficient algorithms for linear equations, least
squares, and eigenvalue problems. Direct and iterative methods are
considered. Julia and/or MATLAB are used extensively.

### Prerequisites

A theoretical linear algebra course (Math 4310) or permission
of the instructor.

### Texts

#### Recommended

- Demmel, [_Applied Numerical Linear Algebra_][demmel]
- Golub and Van Loan, [_Matrix Computations_][gvl]

#### References

Some linear algebra references:

- Meyer, [_Matrix Analysis and Applied Linear Algebra_][meyer]
- Lay, [_Linear Algebra and its Applications_][lay]
- Strang, [_Linear Algebra and its Applications_][strang]
- Strang's excellent online course is [here][strangocw]

Some MATLAB references:

- Moler, [_Numerical Computing with MATLAB_][ncm]
- Van Loan and Fan,
  [_Insight Through Computing: A Matlab Introduction to Computational Science and Engineering_][itc]
- Pratap, [_Getting Started with MATLAB 7_][pratap]
- Gilat, [_MATLAB: An Introduction with Applications_][gilat]
- Hanselman and Littlefield, [_Mastering MATLAB7_][hanselman]
- Or pick a favorite from the [many available][mathworks-books]

The [Julia language web site](https://julialang.org/) has good references 
for the Julia language.

[demmel]: https://www.amazon.com/Applied-Numerical-Linear-Algebra-Demmel/dp/0898713897/
[gvl]: https://www.amazon.com/Computations-Hopkins-Studies-Mathematical-Sciences/dp/B00BD2DVIC/
[meyer]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0898714540/qid=1137779618/sr=2-1/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_1/002-5247186-8320001
[lay]: http://www.amazon.com/Linear-Algebra-Its-Applications-Edition/dp/0321385179
[strang]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0155510053/qid=1137779745/sr=2-1/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_1/002-5247186-8320001
[strangocw]: http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-06sc-linear-algebra-fall-2011/

[ncm]: http://www.mathworks.com/moler/index_ncm.html
[itc]: http://www.ec-securehost.com/SIAM/OT117.html
[pratap]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0195179374/qid=1137779327/sr=8-1/ref=pd_bbs_1/002-5247186-8320001
[gilat]: http://www.amazon.com/MATLAB-Introduction-Applications-Amos-Gilat/dp/0470108770/
[hanselman]: http://www.amazon.com/Mastering-MATLAB-Duane-C-Hanselman/dp/0131430181/
[mathworks-books]: http://www.mathworks.com/support/books/index_by_categorytitle.html?category=17

## Course work

### Readings and the problem du jour

Readings from the course notes will be listed on the course
page before class.  *You are responsible for reading before lecture*.

For most lectures, there will be a "problem of the day" related to
the class material.  These problems are not graded, but you should
try them (and try to understand them) as a way to better learn the
material -- and as a way to study for the exams.

### Homework

There will be nine one-week homeworks, typically assigned Monday and due the
following Monday.  These problems will involve a mix of proofs and computations
done in Julia or MATLAB.  Homework should be typed and submitted as PDF files
on CMS.  After they are graded, homework scores will be posted to CMS.  Regrade
requests must be submitted within one week of receiving the graded homework.

In order to provide timely, high-quality feedback, we may *not* always
grade all problems in a homework or pieces to a project.  Instead, we
will focus our grading efforts on providing feedback on a few key
points.  We will provide written solutions so that you can evaluate
yourself for problems where we do not grade in detail.

### Exams

There will be take-home midterm and final exams.

## Grading

Your final grade in CS 6210 will be computed from grades on the
assignments and exams using the following weights:

 - Participation: 6%
 - Homework: 6% times 9 homeworks
 - Midterm: 20%
 - Final: 20%

## Course policies

### Information systems

The course web page is the canonical source of information for the class.
The web page is maintained via a
[Github repository](https://www.github.com/dbindel/cs6210-f19/).
Pull requests with enhancements or corrections are welcome
(and these count toward participation).

We will use [CMS](http://cmsx.cs.cornell.edu) for homework submission and
recording grades.  I have also created a class
[Piazza](http://piazza.com/cornell/fall2019/cs6210)
for discussion; please feel free to add yourself to it.

### Late work policy

Unless otherwise stated, all work is due by 11:59 pm on the due date.
All homework and projects should be submitted via the course
management system (CMS); you are encouraged to submit early versions,
since resubmissions up to the deadline are counted without penalty.

### Collaboration

An assignment is an academic document, like a journal article.
When you turn it in, you are claiming everything in it is your
original work, *unless you cite a source for it*.

You are welcome to discuss homework and projects among yourselves in
general terms.  However, you should not look at code or writeups from
other students, or allow other students to see your code or writeup,
even if the general solution was worked out together.  Unless we
explicitly allow it on an assignment, we will not credit code or
writeups that are shared between students (or teams, in the case of
projects).

If you get an idea from a classmate, a book or other published
source, or elsewhere, please provide an appropriate citation.  This is
not only critical to maintaining academic integrity, but it is also an
important way for you to give credit to those who have helped you out.
When in doubt, cite!  Code or writeups with appropriate citations will
never be considered a violation of academic integrity in this class
(though you will not receive credit for code or writeups that were
shared when you should have done them yourself).

### Academic Integrity

We expect academic integrity from everyone.  School is stressful,
and you may feel pressure from your coursework or other factors,
but that is no reason for dishonesty!  If you feel you can't complete
the work on the own, come talk to the professor, the TA, or your advisor,
and we can help you figure out what to do.

For more information, see Cornell's
[Code of Academic Integrity](http://cuinfo.cornell.edu/Academic/AIC.html).

### Emergency procedures

In the event of a major campus emergency, course requirements, deadlines, and
grading percentages are subject to changes that may be necessitated by a
revised semester calendar or other circumstances.  Any such announcements will
be posted to [the course home page](index.html).
